two balls in one hand siteswap 4-0
because this hand throws pores and the
other hand throws zeros or you can hold
a ball in this hand and call it siteswap
for two
also try siteswap five to two same as
the three ball cascade but higher and
slower and siteswap four to three
you can also try four to three using
column throws some siteswap patterns are
known as ground state patterns ground
state patterns can begin during a basic
pattern such as a cascade or a fountain
without any transition throws excited
state siteswap patterns require
transition throws but don't worry about
that yet try the site swap for for one
it is a ground state pattern you can
start from a cold start throw a four a
four and then a one and then stop for
four one now try it twice for four one
four four one also try for forty one
from a cascade three three three three
four four one three three three three
four four one four four one four four
one three three try the siteswap five
three one
5:31 is a little bit more difficult you
can learn it by trying one round of five
three one from a cascade so 3 3 3 3 5 3
1 3 3 3 3 5 3 1 practice that until you
can do 531 continuously and now onto
synchronous siteswaps a basic
synchronous pattern is the four ball
synchronous fountain in siteswap this is
a 4 4 with parenthesis and commas to
indicate that it is a synchronous set of
throws and again we could call this a 4
4 4 4 4 4 4 4
but it's easiest to just simplify it to
the least amount of numbers before it
repeats if you can't quite juggle four
balls yet try this pattern this is 4 4 4
0 also try it in columns
another important thing about
synchronous siteswap is that there are
no odd numbers so if a throw is meant to
cross from one hand to the other it will
be an even number followed by a
lowercase X for example a 4x would look
something like this and a 6x would look
like this
and since there are no odd numbers in
synchronous siteswap there are no ones
this is a 2x in synchronous siteswap try
this pattern for 2 X 2 X 4 the
three-ball box
to help you learn this practice with two
balls remember both hands throw
synchronously practice this on both
sides the box pattern may look and feel
similar to 441 but notice the difference
between the two that one is asynchronous
and the other is synchronous multiplex
throws are throwing more than one ball
from one hand at the same time multiplex
throws are indicated by two or more
numbers in a set of brackets a multiplex
three three would look like this if we
had a multiplex throw that was a four
three in brackets it would look like
this
try this pattern three 3 and then
multiplex three three same as the 3-ball
cascade but with four balls two of them
being thrown as a multiplex
another very important thing to know
about siteswap notation is that siteswap
notation is awesome
what well it's true
somebody had to say it I hope you
enjoyed this video and I hope you found
it helpful if you'd like to know more
about siteswaps check out some of the
links in the video description box over
there or is it over there man I'm pretty
sure it's over there I think oh oh no
they can hear my thoughts they can hear
my thoughts don't panic
just run away